Data Barley (pop info, genotypes, genetic map or stick with sunflower?-> sunflower available in stdpopsim but also cross pollinated
-> more data elsewhere?
harley university nam barley
theoretically enough available for (phenotypic) validation
no difference for publication impact between barley and maize

-> parameters for both maize and barley known? which one more available
-> optionally: methods work differently well?

maize grass species
sunflower dicot
offspring simulation is different

look into one first

XSeedscore
input, format?
output, format?

easyPheno
pipeline TUM computomics
as many loci as possible for recombination simulation

essentially: full breeding program and phenotypic selection at each generation -> compounding error in simulating genotypes and predicting phenotypes
or simple genomic selection model with population genetics to simulate genotypes along pedigree
e.g. good by good on closer related genotypes than tester for hybrids
good by good for line development

either: do we train the model using simulated genotypes, validate it and use it as supervised ml model to predict best genos?
-> like genomic selection
-> how to validate?

or: do we simulate best phenotype values among all combinations of possible parent genotypes?
-> like phenotypic selection
-> how to deal with high variation? i.e. every simulation producing different results due to low probability of recomb.
-> include specific breeding goals, e.g. inclusion of known major QTL into final cultivar

breadth or depth -> general simulation engine supporting many different plants/breeding schemes (e.g. lines, hybrids; bulk selection, recurrent selection, ...)
                    or try to achieve best possible simulation and prediction accuracy for one species (e.g. maize)


breeding strategy: validate genotypic simulation with real breeding data available

or:
change parameters like recombination rate and effects on genotypic->phenotypic simulation

seperate selection from genotypic simulation

tasks:
pedigree functions
start msprime with sunflower
which data needed for phenotype simulation like in R script by Franz
-> simulate all pairs most optimal phenotype restricted to maybe 10 sites
idb segments
mrca of a site -> parental generation
no genetic map just flat recomb rate
-> not realistic uniform phenotype plot
-> normalise based on recombination rate
->predict with cnn/rf


thesis
outline
template -> nieselt gruppe

5th september franz zoom 9 Uhr

